== SOURCE

https://digital.hbs.edu/platform-digit/submission/intelligentx-changing-the-world-one-beer-at-a-time/
https://www.producthunt.com/posts/intelligentx-brewing-co

== AGENT

IntelligentX

== GOAL

A British-based brewery called IntelligentX uses artificial intelligence to
help deliver new recipes based on customer feedback. The company aims to 
create the perfect beer and believes the factor in achieving this is 
allowing the customer to play a major role in the refining process. 

== DATA

Customers can sign up to the company’s subscription service and typically 
receive 10 bottles of beer from four different flavours once a month. After
the first delivery, the customers give their feedback and opinion via the 
company’s app. This data from all customers is then given to company’s 
machine learning model and it can then decide how the recipe for a specific
beer should be altered to create a better beer.

== METHODS

The model builds algorithms and these recipes using machine learning 
techniques such as Bayesian decision making and reinforcement learning. The
brewers will then consult the AI’s results, but ultimately, they still make
the final decision when creating a new recipe. They would mix the AI’s 
recommendations and their own optimisations to create a new beer that the
customer would enjoy. 

== RESULTS

The best way to intepret the results would be to read reviews of the final
product. Many purchasers have complimented the quality and the variety of
the beers available while long term customers have noticed gradual 
improvements in taste.

== ISSUES

Since the brand is relatively small compared to larger breweries, I was
unable to find any recent activity by the company. Also, I could not find
any online stores that sell the product.

However, I did find other companies in Europe claiming to produce beer made
by Artificial Intelligence. Obviously other companies have copied 
IntelligentX's innovative brewing techniques. For example, Microsoft and 
Carlsberg have joined forces to attempt to shorten the time in making new 
beer flavours.  


== SCORE

7

== COMMENTS

It is refreshing to see that companies are incorporating customer's 
feedback and integrating it into machine learning algorithms. I am still
skeptical on how much of the final decision is based on the AI's 
recommendations. Experts in brewery or food production or any other form
of craftsmanship will perhaps think that their methods will also be better.

However, I would like to see more companies use this inventive way of 
utilising customer opinion to produce an improved final product that both 
the consumer and producer can benefit from. 

