== SOURCE

https://blog.google/products/maps/google-maps-101-how-ai-helps-predict-traffic-and-determine-routes/
https://deepmind.com/blog/article/traffic-prediction-with-advanced-graph-neural-networks

== AGENT

Google Maps

== GOAL

Google Maps aims to predict when and where traffic jams will occur and 
allow its user to avoid them and find the shortest route to their 
destination.  


== DATA

The main data source for Google Maps is the customers using the app for 
their commute. When a user navigates with Google Maps, (typically via their
phone or tablet device) they are always receiving their location. From 
this, Google can track each vehicleâ€™s speed from their consumers and can 
easily identify traffic congestion by observing many vehicles travelling at
 low speeds on the same route.

== METHODS

Google approaches this 
issue with Graph Neural Networks. This method splits road segments into 
nodes that each contain traffic congestion data at that position and share 
this information with neighbouring nodes.

Google can then combine real-time data and historical traffic patterns to 
predict what the traffic will look like in the near future.  They can 
redirect users beginning their journey from a specific route that will not 
be congested right now, but possibly in 30 minutes. They also consider 
extra factors when recommending an alternative route, such as road quality,
 tolls and recent car incidents/accidents.  

== RESULTS

Google Maps has improved their accuracy of estimated time arrivals by up to
50% all over of the world, with notable improvements in cities such as 
Taichung, Osaka, Sydney and Orlando. 

== ISSUES

Recently, the Covid-19 pandemic highlighted a minor flaw in Google Maps' 
prediction model. Traffic in major cities around the world have reduced 
significantly. Google cannot choose to ignore all historical data when 
predicting routes because some parts of the world have reopened more than 
others and typical traffic patterns have remerged. To compensate for this, 
predictions for routes will only prioritize more recent historical data 
(between two to four weeks) and rely less on older data.

== SCORE

7

== COMMENTS

This is a use of machine learning that most people avail of in everyday use
and I found it to be quite insightful by digging a lit bit into the 
processes and methods used. Interetingly, a user is both being helped by 
and is improving Google Maps simultaneously each time a route is requested 
via the app. I have no doubt that these techniques will be applied to
driver-less vehicles become a more conventional mode of travel.
