== SOURCE

https://science.sciencemag.org/content/362/6419/1140
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AlphaGo_Zero

== AGENT

Alpha Zero

== GOAL

AlphaZero is an algorithm that learns and plays popular board games, such 
as chess, shogi and Go, using Reinforcement learning.

== DATA

Since this a form of reinforcement learning, there is no dataset needed.


== METHODS

The algorithm simply takes the board position of each piece or playable 
space as an input and calculates each move probabilities and final games 
outcome estimates on each turn. The algorithm learns these probabilities 
and outcome estimates from playing, and retains new information and 
techniques for future games.

The algorithm receives a score of 1 for a win, 0 for a draw and -1 for a 
loss. After each game the weight parameters are adjusted to minimise the
error between the expected outcome of the game and the actual outcome.

The same company have also developed an algorithm especially for Go, called
AlphaGo Zero, because the outcome is always a win or a loss. It trains each
new iteration of the algorithm with a new set of parameters/weights against
the best algorithm from all previous versions. The old algorithm is 
replaced when the new "player" achieves a win percentage of total games of 
55%.

== RESULTS

AlphaGo Zero has dominantly beaten most of its predecessors. Earlier 
versions were tested against high ranking professional Go players, and
they won with ease. Later versions are now tested against previous models,
with the most recent attaining a 60:40 win ratio.

== ISSUES

The main issue with this form of AI is the cost of hardware, with costs 
reaching up to $25 million. Also this form of AI learning is quite popular,
and AlphaZero has a lot of competitors. They are always compelled to 
continually work and improve each time they release a new version.

== SCORE

6

== COMMENTS

It may seem like a waste of valuable hardware and resources to train a
highly intelligent model to play board games. However, a sister company, 
AlphaFold, is using similar techniques implemented in AlphaZero to predict 
protein structure using 3D modelling. It's exciting to learn that even the 
most basic uses of AI can teach research teams how to adapt techniques in 
more complex fields of science. 


