== SOURCE

https://www.thrillist.com/entertainment/nation/the-netflix-prize
https://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/KDD-cup-2007/NetflixPrize-description.pdf 
http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.142.9009&rep=rep1&type=pdf 


== AGENT

The Netflix Prize 

In 2006, Netflix released a competition to the public that challenged 
machine learning enthusiasts to submit a movie recommendation system. 
The competition was won by a group of 30 software engineers called Bellkor.

== GOAL

Netflix wished to improve on their current movie rating system, Cinematch. 
Each user of Cinematch could submit their own rating of a movie online, and 
up to 2 million ratings were submitted a day. On a weekly basis, Cinematch 
would use multivariate regression on these ratings to produce a list of 
recommended movies for each user. Netflix requested that the winning 
solution to be published publicly so everyone involved could benefit from 
the techniques and methodology employed. 

== DATA

Netflix provided the dataset from their own historical records of movie 
ratings dated from October 1998 to December 2005. The dataset contained 
over 100 million ratings, scaled between 1 and 5, of 18,000 different movie
titles from 480,000 randomly chosen subscribers. Each movie and subscriber 
were assigned an ID. The dataset was structured in the following format:   

MovieID1: 

CustomerID11, MovieRating11, DATE11 

CustomerID12, MovieRating12, DATE12 

… 

MovieID2: 

CustomerID21, MovieRating21, DATE21 

CustomerID22, MovieRating22, DATE22 

…

A similar dataset of 3 million was provided to act as a test set, however 
it only contained the movie ID and customer ID. The entrant would submit 
their predicted ratings for this dataset to the competition page, but they
would only receive the root mean squared error (RMSE) result for half of 
the dataset. Netflix would then receive the result of the remaining half. 
This is quite common in case the entrant’s solution was over-trained to one
portion of the test set. 

== METHODS

A combination of supervised learning techniques were used by the winning
team in this competition. Machine learning models included Regression and 
k-nearest neighbors (kNN). 

== RESULTS

In 2009, Bellkor submitted a final solution with a RMSE score of 0.8558,
which was achievement of 10.05% improvement over Cinematch. 

== ISSUES

There were no clear issues or problems mentioned by the winning team in any
of their papers. However, Netflix itself was sued by 4 of its customers
and accussed of breaching US trade laws by releasing the dataset to the 
public. A settlement was quickly agreed with the plaintiffs. 

== SCORE

6

== COMMENTS

I think it is quite compelling to see machine learning being used for such
a simple and trivial problem, but yet it is quite relevant to most people. 
Obviously it is quite important to Netflix to find unique recommendations
for each of their users. Several Netlfix original programmes are cancelled 
after one or two seasons, so perhaps Netflix uses this information to also
decide which of its series to prioritize. 
