== SOURCE

https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0201264#sec011 

== AGENT

Universty of Pisa - Dr. Alessio Rossi

== GOAL

A recent study concluded that professional football players in Spain miss 
16% of matches due to injury, which roughly equated to a cost €188 million 
per season. A team of researchers wanted to predict the likelihood of a 
player suffering an injury in the next training session or match from their
recent workload.

== DATA

They chose 26 different professional players from an Italian team to build 
their data around. The researchers monitored these players over 23 
consecutive weeks, recording training workload indicators from GPS devices. 
The dataset is split into 2 groups – one set that records each player’s 
basic information (such as age, BMI, height and playing position) and the 
second that contains the data recorded from each training session. Using 
the GPS technology, the researchers could track each player’s total 
distance covered, high-speed distance and the number of 
accelerations/decelerations above a specific threshold. For each training 
session, they also consider the number of injuries a player has suffered up
to that stage of the study.  

== METHODS

The model was trained using Decision Tree methods – a supervised machine 
learning technique. As an example, if a player recently a suffered an 
injury and only covered 5km in training, the researchers’ model would 
follow a flow chart to find the probability that player will get injured in
the next session. The flow chart is a lot more complex than that and 
involves more information to make a prediction.

== RESULTS

As a result of their model, the researchers concluded that they could 
predict 80% of injuries with 50% accuracy, which was improvement on 
previous attempts. Importantly, their model also has a low false negative 
rate and low false positive rate. This means that players are less likely 
to be unnecessarily rested as a precaution.

== ISSUES

The research team did state that this type of model training is team 
specific. Since each team has different strategies and training schedules,
and the tolerance level for false alarms, an initial period of recording 
data is needed each time a model is built for a different team. They 
noticed that 14 weeks worth of training data is required to build a stable
model. 

== SCORE

6

== COMMENTS

It is quite easy to believe that this form of injury forecasting will be 
widespread in the future, and it can be applied to most sports. However, I
believe the research done by this team was based on a small sample size. I
understand that perhaps this project was a starting point for this research
team, but they need to perform more rigorous testing before they can 
convince professional sports teams to apply this methodology to their own
players.
